README.md, before:

# Awesome-List Researcher

A Docker-based tool that automatically finds and suggests new resources for GitHub Awesome Lists.

## Overview

This tool ingests any GitHub Awesome-style repository, parses its README.md, and uses OpenAI's agents to discover new, non-duplicate, spec-compliant resources that can be added to the list. The result is an updated Markdown file that passes awesome-lint checks.

## Features

- Fully containerized - runs completely inside Docker
- Enforces cost and time constraints
- Configurable OpenAI model selection
- Deduplication of existing resources
- Validation of new resources (HTTPS, GitHub stars, etc.)
- Structured logging of all operations

## Requirements

- Docker
- OpenAI API key

## Usage

```bash
# Build and run the tool
./build-and-run.sh --repo_url https://github.com/username/awesome-repo \
  --wall_time 600 \
  --cost_ceiling 5.00 \
  --min_stars 100 \
  --output_dir runs/ \
  --model_planner gpt-4.1-mini \
  --model_researcher o3 \
  --model_validator o3
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `--repo_url` | GitHub URL of the Awesome list (required) | - |
| `--wall_time` | Maximum execution time in seconds | 600 |
| `--cost_ceiling` | Maximum OpenAI API cost in USD | 5.00 |
| `--min_stars` | Minimum GitHub stars for new resources | 100 |
| `--output_dir` | Directory for output artifacts | runs/ |
| `--seed` | Random seed for deterministic behavior | random |
| `--model_planner` | Model for planning research queries | gpt-4.1-mini |
| `--model_researcher` | Model for researching new resources | o3 |
| `--model_validator` | Model for validating new resources | o3 |

## Environment Variables

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` (required): Your OpenAI API key

## Output

All outputs are saved under `runs/<ISO-TIMESTAMP>/` with the following artifacts:

- `original.json`: Parsed content of the original README
- `plan.json`: Research plan generated by the planner agent
- `candidate_*.json`: Candidate resources found by research agents
- `new_links.json`: Validated new resources after deduplication
- `updated_list.md`: Final updated Markdown list
- `agent.log`: Detailed log of all operations
- `research_report.md`: Summary of the research process

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: implement Awesome-List Researcher

README.md, after:

# Awesome-List Researcher

A Docker-based tool that automatically finds and suggests new resources for GitHub Awesome Lists.

## Overview

This tool ingests any GitHub Awesome-style repository, parses its README.md, and uses OpenAI's agents to discover new, non-duplicate, spec-compliant resources that can be added to the list. The result is an updated Markdown file that passes awesome-lint checks.

## Features

- Fully containerized - runs completely inside Docker
- Enforces cost and time constraints
- Configurable OpenAI model selection
- Deduplication of existing resources
- Validation of new resources (HTTPS, accessibility, etc.)
- Structured logging of all operations

## Requirements

- Docker
- OpenAI API key

## Usage

```bash
# Build and run the tool
./build-and-run.sh --repo_url https://github.com/username/awesome-repo \
  --wall_time 600 \
  --cost_ceiling 10.00 \
  --output_dir runs/ \
  --model_planner gpt-4.1 \
  --model_researcher o3 \
  --model_validator o3
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `--repo_url` | GitHub URL of the Awesome list (required) | - |
| `--wall_time` | Maximum execution time in seconds | 600 |
| `--cost_ceiling` | Maximum OpenAI API cost in USD | 10.00 |
| `--output_dir` | Directory for output artifacts | runs/ |
| `--seed` | Random seed for deterministic behavior | random |
| `--model_planner` | Model for planning research queries | gpt-4.1 |
| `--model_researcher` | Model for researching new resources | o3 |
| `--model_validator` | Model for validating new resources | o3 |

## Environment Variables

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` (required): Your OpenAI API key

## Output

All outputs are saved under `runs/<ISO-TIMESTAMP>/` with the following artifacts:

- `original.json`: Parsed content of the original README
- `plan.json`: Research plan generated by the planner agent
- `candidate_*.json`: Candidate resources found by research agents
- `new_links.json`: Validated new resources after deduplication
- `updated_list.md`: Final updated Markdown list
- `agent.log`: Detailed log of all operations
- `research_report.md`: Summary of the research process

## Model Selection Strategy

The tool uses different models for different tasks to optimize for cost and quality:

- **Planner Agent**: `gpt-4.1` - Deep reasoning to create high-quality search queries
- **Category Researcher**: `o3` - Cost-effective option for large volume of research tasks
- **Validator**: `o3` - Lightweight description cleanup and validation

## Running Tests

To run the end-to-end test:

```bash
# Make sure the OPENAI_API_KEY is set
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
# Run the test
./tests/run_e2e.sh
```

Add the `--keep` flag to preserve test outputs:

```bash
./tests/run_e2e.sh --keep
```

## License

MIT
